AB, AB, 1, 2, 3, testing, AB.
DE, DE, DE, testing, testing. My voice is not very
good. 1, 2, 3, 4, 1, 2, 3, 4. 1, 2, 3, 4, 1, 2, 3, 4. This
is July 13th. We're in room 207 of the Evans
Library, and I have the pleasure and honor of
chatting with Jane Thompson. colleague a long
time ago. I have the pleasure of recording her
memories of being here on the staff a long, long
time. Describe growing up and
your mother's work here. I actually feel like I
grew up on A&M campus because I frequented often
when my mother had to work on Saturdays. I came out
and worked or played or whatever was available for
quite a long time. I have some fond memories of
those days when I used to play in the
administration building, like it was my home, my
grand palace, and roller skate through the
academic building where the wooden floors were,
where the post office was. There were wooden
floors, and the roar of those roller skates was
wonderful. But I felt like A&M was really my home.
More than Bryan, Texas. It's been good to me. Let's
see. Let me. There were not, in those years, were
there any classes in the first floor of the
academic? Or was it pretty well all
administration? It had some classes,
unfortunately. Perhaps not Saturday classes,
but there were classes, classrooms there. And I
remember the rotunda had a big glass case that had
an owl in it. in the middle, and that was a big
feature to go and show everybody when they
visited. Let's
see, your mom's task in those days, what was she
doing? My mother worked in several different
places. The one I remember the most was academic,
student activities, excuse me. student
activities where I got to meet all the good looking
officers of the Corps that came in to get their
checks and visit and all their plans were made
there. So I remember some of those very well.
That pretty much sums up what I can, well, no. I
worked, I mean, when I was in junior high school, we
were recruited to come to the campus for the
stadium for the film, We've Never Been Licked.
Talk about that. Describe it. They gave us a sack
lunch, and we were bussed out to the campus. They
gave us a sack lunch, and we got to sit in the stands
while they filmed the football scenes of that
movie. That's all I know about it. That's pretty
much all there was. Do you remember seeing Robert
Mitchum or any of the other stars? We got to see the
stars. It was just a day away from school and we had
fun doing it. But that goes way back.
I used to work in the summers for Ray Perryman for
the registrar's office when they were testing
freshmen. That was quite several days of testing
of the freshmen coming in so they could evaluate
their
curriculum. And what kind of work were you doing?
Oh, we were handing out the test papers and picking
them up and whatever had to be done, monitoring
them. But Mr. Perriman was a dear man. And in the
beginning, he used to call on me over the
loudspeaker at Speesa Hall because my name was the
only name he could remember of all the students
that worked for him, or all the summer students,
because he was familiar with my mother. So I got to
work special for Mr. Perriman and worked for him in
the summers later until I went to college. Now, did
he report to Mr. Heaton? Yes. He was, I think,
assistant registrar. But he did the statistical
work for the registrar's office. Would this have
been an all-day Saturday job? Yes. It was all day.
Do you remember what the pay was? Oh, no. I have no
idea. We did get paid, though. And in those years,
when your mom came to the campus, did she come in her
own car or ride with somebody? They usually shared
a ride with... However, when my mother first
worked for the university, before I was born,
before she was married, she used to ride to the
campus in the trolley from Bryan. She lived in a
boarding house in Bryan, and she got the trolley to
work. And...
Okay, then you're doing that. You finished high
school. Finished high school, and I went to
college at Sam Houston, and during the second
summer term, I came down with infectious
mononucleosis and had to drop out of school, and
ended up getting married the following February,
so, to my biology professor. So that pretty much
ended my college career.
And then come back to Bryan when? I mean, back to
Bryan College Station when? I came back to Bryan
College Station in 1964. And it was my idea, of
course, to get a job on the campus, which is where I
felt at home. And my mother had told me there was a
job opening in the office of the graduate college.
And she felt like at that time that it was beginning
to grow, the graduate programs were going to grow.
And she thought that might be a good place for me to
work or start to work. And I interviewed there, got
the job, and I stayed there for 25 years. Describe
the interview as well as you remember it. Oh, Ms.
Watson, Ms. Doris Watson. Bless her heart, she was
the typical administrative old maid secretary,
if you want to call it that. Bless her heart. She
wore glasses on the end of her nose. And of course,
she knew my mother too, and I have to say that helped
me a great deal because I think they respected her
and they treated me with respect. So she did hire
me. I had not worked in an office all those years I
was married, and I had to essentially start all
over again. But it was interesting work. As far as
you knew when you went to work, what were your
duties going to be? More or less, I was a
receptionist, so it was perfectly harmless,
almost. I had to answer the phone and write on
people and mail out. And of course, we typed. To the
graduating doctorate students, we typed
original letters to each student. They had to be
perfect. So I had a lot of practice typing letters.
That was before the... What kind of machine were
you using then to type those letters? It was an
electric machine. It was? Oh, okay. Yeah, it was
the first ones. But you still had to erase
typographical letters? Oh, we had to, yes. fact we
weren't allowed to erase unless they just
positively couldn't see it but she inspected each
and every letter which she should have but I
enjoyed working there and when I first remember
working there I think we had all of four filing
cabinets that the graduate applications were
filed and I think in 89 when I retired, there were at
least, oh, there had to be a hundred file cabinets,
active and inactive students. Describe what
offices, when you went to work, describe what
offices, what officials were in the Koch
building. The president was just across the hall,
and the academic vice president for research, I
believe, was with him. I've been trying to think of
his name. I can't right now. But that was pretty
much all. The registrar's office was in one side of
Coke Billy. The fiscal office was on the other,
which for graduate programs was perfect because
we could run down there and do whatever we needed to
do with no problems. That was an ideal situation.
And the registrar was down? It was in the Coke
Billy. On the first floor. On the first floor. The
fiscal office had one half and the registrar had
the other half. So it was a nice situation.
Describe those people that Earl Rutter was the
president. Describe Earl Rutter from your point
of view.
I had very little contact with President Rutter,
but I know that we had a great deal of respect for him
and thought that he was a great leader, which we
needed. And he absolutely, when I was working for
Dr. Coons, he let us do what we had to do without any
interference at all. And President Rutter's
primary secretary was who? Was Nelda Rowell. And
now Nelda Green. Nelda Green. Describe her as...
Oh, a lovely, lovely lady, and she still is and
always will be. A really special person. I was
friends with all of the administrative
secretaries on the campus, the secretaries to the
deans, because we belonged to the National
Secretary Association. We had Bosses Night and
all the good things. We got very close. We knew we
could depend on each other, and we did, from time to
time, call and ask for... Can you do this? Or will
you tell me that? So we worked very well together,
and we had a lot of respect for each other. I'm not
going to ask you the negative now. Among those key
secretaries, who were your favorites, your
closest colleagues? I'd have to think about that.
Because I really, in the graduate office, we
worked with all the deans. So I really, I suppose
Nelda was my favorite top secretary. But Margaret
Coleman in the engineering, wonderful person.
Amadele
Backus in veterinary medicine. I can't think
of... And in that era there were only the deans of
arts and sciences, agriculture, engineering,
and veterinary medicine. Peggy Ritchie of course
is one of my favorite people and we shared an office
at one time. She worked for one of the deans and we in
the Koch building. She was part of the office, so I
got to know her very well, and she is a special
person to me, too. I do want to mention one of the
jobs I had in the early years in the graduate
office. We had to take in all the thesis and
dissertations over the desk. We had to check them.
We had to count the pages. We had to measure the
margins. Now, one of the only jobs I ever
complained about that I can remember is checking
thesis and dissertations. I would do anything but
have to do that. So they gave me the job of when they
came back from the bindery and they could submit as
many copies as they wanted to pay six dollars for, I
think it was, they could submit ten copies if they
wanted to, but I had to ship all those extra copies
out to wherever they were. So that was my penalty
for not checking these dissertations. As far as
you know, whose idea was it to check those details?
Was that Dean Kunze's? No, that went way back
before Dean Kunze. Dean Kunze is the one that
wanted the thesis clerk in the library. Thank
goodness for that. Now you went to work in what
year? 64. All right. Now Kunze was not yet the
graduate. No, he was not, and I'm sorry, I can't
remember what year he came in, but see, Barczak was
the associate dean, and then when they made a dean,
they put Dean Kunze in as dean. There was never
another dean. Wayne Hall was the vice president
for academic affairs and... The graduate
college, yeah. Describe Wayne Hall. A quiet, very
mannerly man. Mrs. Watson did not let us have much
communication with Dr. Hall. She protected him
very well, but he was always very nice. Actually, I
had just almost nothing to do with him. What kind of
hours did he work? I have no idea, because we were
segregated so from him that I didn't see him come in
and I didn't see him leave. We were in one half of
that office, do you remember? And he was in the
other half. And the only way the deans could see
him, or associate deans, assistant deans, would
sneak around the back of that office in the Koch
building through the back side of it that was away
from Mrs. Watson. As far as you were aware, Earl
Rudder was a key decision maker. Who else were key
decision makers at A&M then? Do you have any? No,
I'm sorry, I can't. My world was the graduate
office and I think the deans had a great deal of
input to whatever was, it wasn't quite as
complicated as it is now because there was the, the
structure was a lot simpler then. So the deans had a
lot of input into what. And normally your working
hours were? Eight to five. But didn't you
sometimes work? Oh, well, as I went up the ladder in
the office, my hours got longer and longer, but it
was something I enjoyed doing. The only problem is
I had to certify graduating students' degrees
three times a year every year, along with
everything else that I had to do, and that got to be
quite difficult. Tiresome, to say the least. Do
you remember any crisis events about somebody
doing something at the last minute? Oh, we always
had that. That was pretty normal. But I can
remember when we had to submit a signed list of
graduating students by a deadline, so many
copies. And in those days, the only copier we had
was the mimeograph. And the only mimeograph
machine we had was in the president's office. So we
had to troop over there, and I was never one that was
good at mimeographing. It just never seemed to go
right for me. But anyway, we finally got a
multilift operator in the fiscal office, and he
used to run my list for me at the last minute.
But that was my most trauma. We had those deadlines
to meet. Do you remember any time when, if anybody,
a regent or a administrator or a parent tried to get
y'all to make an exception to the rule? No. I
truthfully cannot remember anything like that.
Especially when Dr. Kunze is dean, everything was
completely above board. he would have been the
last person to ever let anything happen that he
might embarrass himself or the college or
anybody. So we did the best job we could to make it
as, I'm not saying that we didn't make mistakes
occasionally. I did graduate somebody who wasn't
cleared one time. But that was purely a clerical
error. This is an editorial note to the typist and
to be identified as an editorial note. I was
invited to join this staff as assistant dean of the
graduate school or assistant graduate dean or
whatever it might be. R.W. Bill Barzak from the
English department was the associate dean and
Wayne Hall was vice president and graduate dean.
Then after a year or so, Bill Barzac told me that he
was going to go back to the English department,
that he thought that Vice President Hall might ask
me about moving up, and he did, ask me if I was
interested, but it would be a full-time task, and I
had been doing half-time and teaching and enjoyed
that, and he said, no, it would have to be
full-time, and I told him, well, I probably then
would not be interested, but I also asked him, how
long might it be before they selected a graduate
dean? And he said that he thought that would
probably be done within a year. I then paused and
asked him, would anyone from the liberal arts area
have any chance to be considered? He smiled and
then said very confidently, we've already
decided it's going to be someone from
agriculture. So I told him, no, I'd go on back, but I
would stay to help that person get started. And
then so I worked with Dean George Kunze for a year
and enjoyed that and found him to be a splendid
person to work with. Okay, end of note. When Dr.
Kunze came in, do you remember how he organized the
Did you become the senior person? No. He had to use
Mrs. Watson. So, she still was the supervisor of
all of the support staff for graduate and academic
VP. Eventually, I mean it didn't take long that he
couldn't live with that situation, so I did become
his secretary.
but it was a little bit after that. Make believe
I've never seen George Kunze. Describe him
physically, his appearance. George
Kunze, I believe, probably came from the same part
of Germany as the Pope.
in Italy. They're built, they look the same build,
same features almost as the pope in Italy.
Always pleasant man. He would hit the door in the
morning with his sack lunch heading for the
refrigerator and speak to everybody in the office
good morning. I didn't realize how important that
was until he was gone and nobody ever did it again.
But he was just that kind of man. And when something
went wrong, he absolutely dropped everything. He
sat there like he had the rest of the day to spend
with you and you would talk about it. I didn't
really appreciate him until he was gone as much as I
should have. But there's not many like that. Did
you learn any pet peeves that he had? Was there
anything that he really didn't want anybody to do?
Oh, yes. The main thing was we were in the Koch
building on the second floor, had a lovely lounge
outside between
the offices, and he did not want the girls sitting
out there doing handwork or anything like that. He
felt like anybody visiting the university would
think that that was foolish, wasting time. So the
girls, they just didn't even try. But he didn't
want anybody reading at their desk, and he didn't
want anybody sitting looking like they had
nothing to do. Of course, we never did have that
freedom. And in that era, the support staff never
smoked. Oh, no. No, no. We never had any smoking in
our office. Never even came up. And what was
appropriate dress? Well, appropriate dress in
the beginning was just your nice looking clothes
like you would wear to church, perhaps. Hose, of
course, always. But then there came a time when
they were talking about pantsuits, so everybody
wanted, that was the latest thing, and so we had a
meeting, and he agreed that we could wear
pantsuits if they were coordinated, and of course
that was what everybody was wearing, and that was
the most liberal thing we did. How did y'all plan
that meeting to bring that up? Well, it just takes
two or three girls. The office wasn't that large at
that time, so there weren't that many people in
there, as you well know. So it just took a couple of
us to go to him, and he was open for suggestions. He
was always willing to listen. He didn't always
agree with us, but he was willing to listen. I do
want to say one thing I remember especially during
those times was when you would come in the middle of
the office and do your radio impersonations. And
Mrs. Watson glaring at you with her glasses. But we
enjoyed that so much and had such fun laughing
about it. And
do you remember any great crises, big problems
that...
We had a lot of crises, but they were just taken care
of as a matter of
I don't think we ever had anything get out of hand
that I can remember. Now this was the time when
women were first attending. Do you remember any
problems that the graduate college had over
co-education or racial integration? No. We
really had, we actually just dealt with everybody
the same. I must say that I felt a little uneasy when
the Iran crisis and those times when we had so many
Iranian students. And I just simply wasn't sure
what would happen when you walk up to the window and
be talking to someone. And also mail bombs were a
hot issue then. But we didn't talk about it. We
didn't dwell on it. We just handled things as we
always had and tried not to make it an issue. Where
did you and your colleagues where did y'all eat
lunch in that era in the office usually we have a
microwave we had when we moved over to the Teague
building we had our refrigerator we shared a
kitchen area with the Xerox with the College of
Medicine so we had the lap of luxury there we had a
microwave and we had a refrigerator and We really
just didn't go out a lot unless someone had to go
home. But eating out was not, maybe on Friday we
would go out and eat together somewhere. And back
in the Koch building and also the Teague building,
y'all did not take breaks mid-morning and
mid-afternoon, did you? And walk over to the MSC or
anything like that? No, we never got out of the
building until quitting time. But I do remember we
used to go on Friday together, we would go It was in
the Coke building. It was with Peggy Anderson and
some others I remember. It was the Coke building.
We used to go to the Texan for lunch, which we would
get, for a dollar and a quarter, we got chicken
fried steak, mashed potatoes, and a salad.
And it was the Texan, the one that... It was the
drive-in then.
It was a restaurant. We ate inside in the
restaurant. Now, as a sidelight, during that era,
where were the classiest places to eat in Bryan
College Station? I don't think we had any.
Let's see if I can remember the name. The
Captain's, there was a restaurant called the
Captain's Table.
And of course, always the Mexican food places.
I'd have to really think about that. Another
example of how times change, where did you park as
an employee? Well, in the Koch building, I had my
own reserve parking place. Eventually, I
graduated to that. Immediately next door?
Immediately next door, and it was lovely, just
lovely. And then we moved to the Teague building.
We had to park across the street in Lot 55, which was
okay. But I did miss that. adjacent parking. It was
nice. I loved looking out at my window in the Koch
Building onto Military Walk. Because I have
really pleasant memories of when my mother and I
used to come out and park and watch the students
march down Military Walk from Guyon Hall to Sevesa
through there. Describe the attitude of the
students in general and what this campus was like
in the 60s.
I had no problem. We didn't see that many students.
Now remember, we didn't see the colleges pretty
much, and we worked through their advisors and
their deans. So as far as interaction with
students, except in the summer when we worked with
registration, when we had to approve all the
graduate registrations in the summer, we didn't
really get into the students' activities. But
were students polite? Yes, it was their dress that
was always so entertaining, so to speak, because
they were various forms of dress and undress
during the summer. In those years, they were
wearing the low-cut jeans and the hairdos and
really some Interesting thing, and we enjoyed
that. But were there ever any student troubles?
No, there were not. And people from Washington
would visit the campus, for instance, with Dr.
Kunze, and they would just remark what a quiet,
well-behaved student body. There were no
outrageous-looking people. It was... they were
just impressed with the way it was performing at
that time because they were having so many
problems in other colleges. And was the graduate
college growing? The graduate college was
growing and growing and growing and Dr. Kunze
fortunately had the foresight to go to the
automated graduate student record system of
which he And the data processing center worked out
a program which saved us in the long run, because we
could never have handled all those records
without it. It was very popular. He traveled over
the countryside, especially to the colleges of
the Council of Graduate Schools, and gave talks on
that program. I don't know how many of them adopted
it, but they did visit to see what we were doing, how
we were doing it.
Quite a breakthrough. Did you and your friends
think that A&M was making progress during those
years? Were we getting better and bigger? Yes,
because I would see the correspondents coming in
from other schools and deans and places he visited
saying the nice things about our programs and with
great respect. So I really realized we were
getting bigger, and I was most proud of it. Now,
President Rutter's office was moved from the Koch
Building to the System Building. Yes. Well,
actually, they were in the Teague Building. No,
no, I know this before, before, while Rutter was
still president. He was in the System Building,
wasn't he? Yes. From the System Building, I guess
they moved to the Teague Building and then to the
Koch Building. Because we, we got their offices in
the Teague building, the president's office in
the Teague building when we moved there. They had
been there and they wanted back in the Koch
building. Yeah. So you weren't aware that Mr.
Rutter's health was failing? No. In the late, or? I
wasn't, no. I'm not sure whether. Do you remember
the reaction of the campus when Mr. Rutter died?
Oh, yes. It was a shock to all of us. We felt it. Did
you go to the memorial? I did. I went to the
memorial. I went to, um, what do you call it?
What the students, the ceremony the students. Oh,
oh, I mean, uh, uh, uh, Silver Taps. Yeah. Silver
Taps. Yes, yes. Um, but we all did. We all
participated, and it was, um, And Nelda was so, she
was so,